Phase 4 Performance Testing: Deployments under load (#103)
ONSdigital/eq-survey-runner-benchmark: doc/performance-testing/cloud-run/0004-stress-test-phase-4/0004_stress-test-phase-4-febuary-2022.md

# Stress Test Phase 4 February 2022

To test deployment of a new version of eQ runner whilst under load.

The test was conducted 3 times, one trial run in a separate GCP project before 2 tests using eq-stress-test-340815. The trial results have been included to highlight a potential issue with latency on deployment.

> In each test, runner version 3.9.4 was upgraded to 3.9.5. The only exception was the last test which was downgraded from 3.9.5 to 3.9.4, this seemed a completely valid scenario and due to no breaking changes in the versions had no ill effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In each test, runner version 3.94.0 was upgraded to 3.95.0 The only exception was the last test which was downgraded from 3.95.0 to 3.94.0, this seemed a completely valid scenario and due to no breaking changes in the versions had no ill effect.
```

Deployment was successful each time with no associated errors (there were a handful of secrets already existing, but I saw that as a separate issue).

Although deployment was successful in each test it was not completely seemless. Each test saw a spike in latency of the new instance at the time of switching, this lasted approximately 20 seconds.

The table below shows the amount of requests in that time period and the count of requests breaking particular thresholds.

| Environment | Total requests | Request latency >2s | Request latency >5s | Request latency >10s | Date/Time | Output |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |--- | --- | --- |
| eq-stress-test-340815 (Test1) | 45,034 | 6017 | 3094 | 58 | 09-02-2022 20:00 |[output](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/eq-stress-injector-07122021-outputs/stress-test/2022-02-09T20:00:45/) |
| eq-stress-test-340815 (Test2) | 43,885 | 7540 | 5453 | 771 | 10-02-2022 13:18:38 |[output](https://console.cloud.google.com/storage/browser/eq-stress-injector-07122021-outputs/stress-test/2022-02-10T13:18:38/) |

> | Trail run | 45,059 | 7443 | 3385 | 228 | 09-02-2022 13:14:03 | ephemeral GCP project |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Trial run | 45,059 | 7443 | 3385 | 228 | 09-02-2022 13:14:03 | ephemeral GCP project |
```

## Visualisations

Test1

![](0004_test-1-response-time-and-requests.png)
![](0004_test-1-instances.png)
![](0004_test-1-cpu.png)

Test2

![](0004_test-2-response-time-and-requests.png)
![](0004_test-2-instances.png)
![](0004_test-2-cpu.png)

Trial

![](0004_trial-response-time-and-requests.png)
![](0004_trial-instances.png)
![](0004_trial-cpu.png)

## Conclusion
Whether it was the test settings or the timeliness of the instance switching there does seem to be a gap lasting approximately 20 seconds when the new instance has significantly higher latency.

> The results of the test showed that 15% of requests at the time were above 2 seconds. In 2 of the tests aftershocks were also seen for the next 3-4 minutes, where a small proportion of requests also took greater than 2 seconds (approximately 50 requests)

Reviewer 3: I don't want to be that guy.. but full stop missing.
